
Jan 29, 2024

story vs plot
story is the content who where and what
plot is the structural side of the film how when why


characters
- protagonist
- antigonist
- antihero

film can be broken down to
characters
goals 
obstacles


3 act structure

act 1: beginning - set up the story, setup
act 2: middle - longest section. story development, midpoint
act 3: end - resolution to the conflict, resolution

The Classical Paradigm
developed by syd field

[check the slide]

example: star wars: empire strikes back

---

Act I

the hook
	the opening of the film and the first act
	getting your audiences' attention

inciting event
	the moment in the film when the protagonist first encounters what will become the main conflict
	protagonist still has a choice

1st plot point
	the culmination of act one. the big moment.
	propels us into act ii
	threshold point, or a point of no return

---

Act II

1st pinch point
	first of many obstacles the protagonist is going to face in the 2nd act
	antagonistic force that's in place
	implies the weight that's in play here
	direct setup for the midpoint
	there's no specific time frame, depends on story
	hurricane in jurassic park, leaving tatooine in star wars

midpoint
	approx. halfway through the film
	moment of truth
	it must be big, because major story character ramification
	typically the protagonist perspectives of a lot of things will completely change
	up until here, prot were in reactive moment, but this time they go more into proactive moment
	characters are in a fight to survive "we need a plan"
	an active opposition

2nd pinch point
	stakes are very high at this point
	a chance to emphasize what the characters really stand to lose if they continue down the path
	solidify at least sending the protagnoist to the inevitable path
	jurassic park: redry's death, star wars: breaking princess leia out of prison and escaping
	raises questions of whether the protagonists will come out alive

---

Act III

3rd plot point
	transitional phase
	sometimes called a false vivtory, or protagonist's darkest hours
	protagn=onist takes everything they've got to the antigonist or force, get a victory but comes at a high cost
	may even wanna give up sometimes
	jurrasic: juxtapos moment, eli barker trying to get the power back on, timmy gets electricuted
	star wars: they escape, get out of trash compactor, but death of obi wan
	it seems there's no hope

climax
	ultimate combination fo the story so far
	it's a final confrontation of te protagonist and the antigonist
	deciding moment of the netire story
	ddetermines if the protagonists wins or loses
	clear turning point, should fulfil the arc of the protagnist
	tough to identify sometimes, constant tension
	ramping up of intensity
	always a moment where the protagonist and the antigonist meet head on
	jurrasic park: visitor center, characters vs raptors
	star wars: luke has his trench run combination of him using the force to make the kill shot. luke stopped questions force, done that full arc.

resolution
	really fast, sometimes the last few seconds of the film
	downward slope is the resolution
	consequences of the climax
	formation of new normal, newstasis
	different from what what was there when the film started
	get the formation of the new world, restoration of some kind of equilibrium
	emphasizes the characters' growth
	biggest questions should have some answers
	audience should get some closure in theory, but doesn't always happen
	star wars: empire defeated temporarily, signals major shift in luke


---

The Hero's Journey
	maps some of the 8 things from the previous
	common narrative archetype
	the monomyth by joseph campbell
	tracks sdiff stages of protagonist journey
	it's constant and ongoing
	there are 17 stages, no need to memorize
	people have created different variations of this
	can be reduced down to 12

1. the ordinary worls
2. call to adventure
3. refusal of the call
4. meeting the mentor
5. crossing the threshold
6. tests,, allies, and enemies
7. 


genres, despite being muddy there are baseline things, those are trops

	

