
Cinematography

Process of capturing the moving image on film or digital medium of some sort
aim for something that's pleasing to the eye
language of moving picture
contribute to the overall meaning of the film
camera angle is important
cinematographer or director of photography responsible of it - transforms script, production design etc.

---

Three key shooting terms

shot - one uninterupted run/moving of the camera
take - 
setup - camera positioning and everything that's associated with it, usually time consuming

---

Depth: Deep focus cinematography
	everything is clear, nothing is blurred

---

Shot type and angle are different things
amount of subject matter within the screen. ask: how much of the human body can you see?

Six basic categories of shots

	extreme long shot: 
	from far away, see lots of background/setting but not individual detail, tiny people
	aka. establishing shot: helps establish the setting
	
	long shot: 
	background and subject are typically in equal level
	slightly more detail of the subject but not all of it
	
	full shot: 
	head is close to the top, feet close to the bottom
	
	medium shot: 
	where one or more people but cropped, knees or the waist up
		medium 2 shot: one medium shot with 2 people
		medium 3 shot: one medium shot with 3 people
	cowboy shot: mid-thigh (and centered?)
	masking: leg blurred but man in middle

	close-up: 
	face will fill the frame, physical or psychological detail, emotional detail
	
	extreme close-up: 
	zoomed in to the subject, only the eyes, the mouth, trigger of a gun instead of the entire gun, handle of the saber instead of entire light saber etc.

---

Camera Angles

Birds's Eye
	overhead or aerial-view shot
	looking down from top
	used for sense of omnision, sometimes used for disorientation feeling
	typically from drone, helicopter etc.

High Angle
	from top looking down but not too extreme high as bird's eye
	typically taken from crane or high point
	can give us general overview of a space

Eye-Level
	how we most used to seeing
	from eye-height
	neutral view of the action
	audience is the observer

Low
	opposite of high angle
	in shining, used for suspense, despair
	sometimes depending of context, the subject could be powerful or threatening

Dutch (Oblique)
	aka. weak angle
	involves lateral tilt of the camera
	throws off x and y axis
	typically used for help create a sense of tension, impending movement
	trying to figure out whether the camera is moved, or the set rotated
	set rotation not a dutch angle

---

horror genre leans on unknown and suspense
contains many sterotypes
destabilizatino of straight white families

a lot of people identify themselves as what they are not: ex. I'm not ___. creating a sense of destabilization in horror film

creates a social safety valve, appeal of horror sometimes is that pressure release
capitalized around destability, and closure of the film

use fo space in Jaws and horror film
film spends a lot of time at ocean water level, denies information of what's below the water to create suspense
terror of what's underneath the water you can't see


